okay welcome to gui and in web browsers
for
8th of september 2020
this week uh we got a pretty cool
announcement
so maybe i'll share my screen feel free
to add any
agenda items which i missed
the cool cool development is that
uh part of uh work we do with igalia
on uh improving the way protocol
handlers
work on the web platform uh initially
the goal was to improve browser
extension context but
since then the work pivoted a little bit
and we are improving the way
the generic navigator
api looks like
so in chrome 86
which shipped on the 3rd of september
there's this update that
ipfs ipns and a bunch of other
distributed web uri schemes
are now safe listed which means
everyone can use use them in
with register protocol handler api it's
a
basic api which just enable you
to redirect specific requests
to some arbitrary website
uh but it's uh pretty cool
that we are now site listed uh safe
listing means
uh our protocol scheme does not need to
be prefixed by
web plus prefix
so you know are
it's much easier to use ipfs console
slash protocols
in in websites and
in general uh across your system
um that's the first step
uh ideally we want to get to the point
where we are able to return arbitrary
bytes
fetched from ipfs without redirecting to
some
other url but it's pretty cool
that registration at ayana
and now we can see it happened some time
ago
and now chrome 86 safe listed
ipfs ipns uh which will make
all make it to all the other
chromium based browser vendors sooner or
later
as a side note we got this website are
we distributed yet.com
it was mentioned on the chrome
chromium team blog post unfortunately
that website is bit outdated and the
deployment does not work
so my proposal was to switch to flick
so we don't need to figure it out how to
do
circle ci um deep bass deployments
across the orgs because this website is
under are we distributed yet.org
and there's a bunch of stuff that does
not work
across orgs uh but that's something we
probably will discuss uh asking uh
outside of this call
um there are upcoming releases i try to
like compile a list of stuff that
will land sooner or later we did not
ship ipfs web ui
to 11 yet but there's a milestone which
is nearly completed we got just
two or three issues or pull requests
waiting for a review and merge and then
we are good to go
to to do it uh the plan is to do it
either tomorrow or
thursday depending how profile it feels
uh and
our reviews goes uh but this will be a
pretty cool
um release where uh changes made by
iraqi
on uh removing the need for removing the
buffering of big files um that will land
if i'm not mistaken breadcrumbs
breadcrumbs
by rafael uh improved support for remote
apis
so it would be possible to use
things like basic alf or a custom
configuration of http client
uh yeah and a bunch of improvements
around
the way we handle translations uh the
duplication of code
of key is made by jessica there's like a
long long list
on the milestone i believe um
i don't think i'm sharing my screen
but the link is in the notes we're we're
two issues open 15
issues closed so yeah yeah it's a lot of
stuff that didn't
that doesn't that isn't user visible but
it's still super good
yeah i think we should aim for like a
smaller milestones uh
we already scoped a bunch of stuff to uh
to 12
uh and we will probably refine this
process
uh uh the this when this release happens
we will ship new ipfs desktop
uh i believe go ipfs 0.7 will
be released probably next week at the
beginning of the next week or
at the end of this week so when we have
this new web ui we will bump the version
of both web ui and go apfs in ipfs
desktop and ship that to our end users
so all those new web ui features will uh
land in ipfs desktop and ipvs companion
uh with post secio refactor
uh got kind of deprioritized because
uh our infrastructure will still
maintain uh those uh bootstrap nodes
which
talk only with which will
enable js ipfs running in the browser
context
js ipfs in an older version which does
not uh
support anything other than sekio those
notes will continue
working properly so it's no longer a
super high priority
to learn this so uh that sound
uh good news is that uh
alex landed uh uh i i mentioned it
a little bit lower so there's this uh
javascript epic of replacing
node buffers with uint
arrays and
the good news is that i believe the
latest version of jsapfs is
mostly unifying
the behavior between uh jsipfs
and uh jsipfshtp client
so the same types
are accepted in both which will make
a refactor of ipfs companion easier
because in ipfs companion we have
both http client for talking to a remote
node
over http and there's also ability to
run embedded node and so far
we had to uh created two
code paths for each and now it will be
greatly unified so i think that will
unblock this refactor as well um
oh gosh i believe that's it
on on upcoming releases did i miss
anything
um ipfs
go ip jessica updated
uh names of bunch of countries which
were
and then that opened up the biggest
rabbit hole on the planet
it was like all over the place but uh
yeah
that will also be in uh web ui to
point eleven uh so it's pretty fat
release we'll try to cut a bit more lean
releases going further
further in the future and am my right
you can see
you can see the uh country edits
already in the public gateway tracker
because they're already public yeah
so i i believe i switched this static
website uh it's
it's using the ipfs go ip and it's using
the
pre-built browser bundle uh um
http client which is pretty funny so
if you hover on uh the
flag of the usa in the past it was
united states now
it's usa that's how we know the
name updates got applied
yep it works
all right um pinning services
gosh oh every why every item is mine
i should randomize this stuff
all right so uh pinning services api
spec the good news
is that there are no no news so that's a
good news
it's good news because we are pretty
stable and pretty happy with the api
uh there there is just a bunch
of final touch touches on
um on the topic of uh
documentation so we are specifying that
the pin name filter
should be case insensitive to improve
user experience and we are
clarifying the way browser the way error
responses should be returned so i
believe
right now it looks more or less like
this
there are examples for each error type
we also got
a generic 400
and 500 custom errors
we do not control every error that will
be returned by
reverse proxies and also pinning
services may decide to create
their own custom error codes
but there's a an error structure that we
suggest to use which makes it easier for
both
machines humans and make it possible to
figure out what went wrong without
relying on http semantics so
that's mostly
improving docs and clarifying stuff that
was not
specified in the spec i also believe we
now have
a go library
for a client site and and you
made pins on rails i'm not sure if i
mentioned it like the
last time we we talked so pins on rails
are
a server implementation of pinning
service api
that you can like run locally or run
remotely and use it
for self-hosting and stuff like that um
yep i believe that's my
list of stuff i was supposed to run
through very quick uh
yeah so uh the the
the links to both client and
andrew's pinning service uh
app will be added to the rhythmy of
pinning service apis back i believe
there's an open pr
oh quick no andrew just said he moved
into shipyard so we'll need to change it
in the api docs
i think he's already changed it oh you
did the pr is up to date
um that's what i get for being gone for
today
question title about um
foul coin and pinning things are we
assuming that the file coin stuff will
be transparent to the user
or deal out of band like is that
something that yeah is something that
will get flung
uh so it was like a conscious decision
to not include anything file coins
related in the spec uh
so it's purely ipfs
uh there's you you can implement it with
sql database whatever you want as a
back-end
you may use whatever you want for
the storage the idea is that it should
be possible to use this api
in a pinning service that is file coin
backed
and it should be possible for pinning
service to come up with
additional
metadata for that's related to file coin
for example
if you want to store multiple copies
or you want to store it in a specific
regions or tweak other
falcon parameters the pinning service
that is implementing this api spec
should be able to leverage info and meta
fields which are like free form uh
dictionaries
right now and come up with a convention
for supporting this additional
file coin specific or way
of storing files
but we did not we did not include that
in the spec
just to make a spec small and like
backhand agnostic and also we did not
had
um many uh pin we had a small
num we have a small number of pinning
services which will implement this
spec uh out of the box uh so
[Music]
we don't want to be prescribed
prescriptive
too early and the idea is that spinning
services that
are using file coin on the back and then
they will eventually
come up with a set of conventions which
are
common to them and we either agree or
like
everyone will follow the same set of
conventions or we will promote
those meta or info fields to the higher
level just like we did with
creation date or a name of
a pin but that just like uh
where things are right now the spec is
just ipfs
and that's it
that makes sense uh i thought the spec
on the whole was very
easy to implement there's a few bits
that you have to
make sure you focus if you're if you're
implementing it like i did by hand
rather than using the
like something that generates something
else from the yaml file
but um the only thing that i found that
was weird
that's still there um is when you do an
update
you're not actually doing an update
you're deleting the thing
and returning a brand new thing um which
hurt my brain a little bit to like do
that i kind of re-implement it three
times
until i ended up with like okay fine i'm
gonna forget what i know and i'm just
gonna do exactly what this says
um but that might end up being a gotcha
for some other people as well
uh maybe it's just a messaging around it
to be like it's not really
an update at all you don't touch
like you don't change any details in
your whatever your record for your pin
is blast throw it away and make a new
one with the details that were sent
through
yeah yeah that that's a that's a good
point that maybe we
we should like use different language
than modify or update maybe we should
use something like migrate
migrate or replace yeah or replace yeah
i think maybe replace maybe better uh
the the also it uses a post
so it doesn't match with like the kind
of patchy
yeah semantics uh both post and this
uh concern about like get uh posting
something and getting something new
is because the general idea behind this
api
is that the pin object is immutable
so you effectively can think that you if
you use ipfs
for storing those pins right so you have
this pin object
and you put it on the ipfs and you get
an immutable cid and then you can use
that
immutable cid as an id of id in a pin
status right
right and that's if you
think about things that way that
explains why you are not able to like
actually update the pin
when you post a pin to replace it
uh you posted a new thing that new thing
got added to ipfs and you got a
different
unique identifier and that's why you got
this different
identifier back yeah and i probably ran
into that because i
kept my pin status and pins in the same
table as
opposed to making two different ones um
just for simplicity i've got to run now
um
but if there's more opportunity to talk
about those things then
ping me for whatever the relevant
meeting is yeah i think this is
pretty good idea to change the naming to
replace i really like
i think that will make it easier for
people to wrap their hand head around
even without
knowing this story about storing pin
objects on ipfs itself
andrew alright folks
i'm at the end of agenda uh we are a bit
short stuff
this week is there anything you want to
discuss talk about
can i check in with you after you stop
recording for
details of things that no one else cares
about
you mean our top secret projects which
are oh yes
our our moon base underground
volcano layer great now i need to cut
this out of this recording okay
see you in two weeks hopefully we'll
finally re
release web ui by then
bye